Signer doc first draft (#1674)
stacks-network/docs: guides-and-tutorials/sbtc/how-to-run-sbtc-signer.md

# How to Run a sBTC Signer

{% hint style="warning" %}
This documentation is for preview purposes only. The implementation is not final and should not be used in production. The configuration files, especially the docker-compose setup, will undergo significant changes. This guide is provided to give potential operators an early look at the setup process.

> {% endhint %}

Reviewer: Can we make this a bit less scary? The setup _might_ change, but we don't expect it to be completely different.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% hint style="warning" %}
This documentation is for preview purposes only. This should not be used in production. The configuration files and the docker-compose setup will undergo some necessary changes before release, but the setup here is very close to what will be required in production.
{% endhint %}
```

<details>

<summary>bitcoin.conf example</summary>

```conf
regtest=1 #chain=regtest

[regtest]
printtoconsole=1
disablewallet=0
txindex=1
coinstatsindex=1

# Specify a non-default location to store blockchain data.
# blocksdir=/data/bitcoin-data
# Specify a non-default location to store blockchain and other data.
# datadir=/data/bitcoin-data

# [network]
# bind=0.0.0.0:18444
discover=0
dns=0
dnsseed=0
listenonion=0

# [rpc]
rpcserialversion=0
# Accept command line and JSON-RPC commands.
server=1
# Accept public REST requests.
rest=1
rpcbind=0.0.0.0:18333
rpcallowip=0.0.0.0/0
rpcallowip=::/0
rpcuser=user
rpcpassword=password

# [zmq]
# Note that this is required for the sbtc signer to work properly.
zmqpubhashblock=tcp://*:28332
zmqpubrawblock=tcp://*:28332

# [wallet]
addresstype=legacy
changetype=legacy
fallbackfee=0.00001
```

</details>

### ZeroMQ (ZMQ) Configuration

ZeroMQ enables real-time blockchain event notifications from Bitcoin Core to the sBTC signer. The two required ZMQ endpoints serve distinct purposes:

- `zmqpubhashblock`: Broadcasts only block hashes for lightweight block detection
- `zmqpubrawblock`: Broadcasts complete block data for transaction processing

> This notification system creates a direct event stream:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This notification system creates a direct event stream when:
```

1. Bitcoin Core validates a new block
2. Block data publishes via ZMQ
3. Signer processes relevant sBTC transactions

## 2. Configure your signer

The signer configuration file (`signer-config.toml`) defines the signer's operation parameters. The configuration sections include:

### Emily API Configuration

Controls connection to the Emily API server. The Emily API is designed to track deposits and withdrawals, providing information about the status of in-flight sBTC operations. It serves two primary user groups: sBTC users and sBTC app developers.

```toml
[emily]
endpoints = ["https://emily-sbtc.com"]

> ```

Reviewer: Wouldn't this be a default value? Why would signers ever want to change this?

CC @AshtonStephens

Reviewer 2: Yes, they would not change this and it would be a default value.

### Bitcoin Connection Settings

Defines how the signer connects to Bitcoin Core:

```toml
[bitcoin]
rpc_endpoints = ["http://user:pass@your-bitcoin-node:4122"]
block_hash_stream_endpoints = ["tcp://localhost:28332"]
```

### Core Signer Parameters

Defines the signer's identity and network participation:

```toml
[signer]
private_key = "your-private-key"  # 32 or 33-byte hex format
network = "mainnet"  # Network selection: mainnet, testnet, or regtest

> deployer = "SNYourDeployerAddress"  # Address that deployed sbtc contracts

Reviewer: Here we will need to either:

1. Provide a good default in code/config;
2. manually give this information to the signers.

#
# Format: ["<protocol>:<ip>[:port]", ...]
# - If port is omitted then the default port 4122 will be used.
# Default: ["tcp://0.0.0.0:4122", "quic-v1://0.0.0.0:4122"]
# Required: false
# Environment: SIGNER_SIGNER__P2P__LISTEN_ON
#
# Defined in the provided docker compose, do not uncomment unless you know
# what you're doing.
# -------------------------------------------------------------------------
listen_on = ["tcp://0.0.0.0:4122", "quic-v1://0.0.0.0:4122"]

# The publicly accessible network endpoint to advertise to other nodes.
#
# If this is not specified then the node will attempt to use other peers on the
# network to determine its public endpoint. This is the recommended
# configuration for most users.
#
# If your network uses an advanced configuration with separate inbound/outbound
# addresses then you must specify this value with your inbound address and
# configure port-forwarding as auto-discovery will report your outbound address.
#
# Format: ["<protocol>:<ip>:<port>", ...] (see `listen_on` for protocol options)
# Default: <none>
# Required: false
# Environment: SIGNER_SIGNER__P2P__PUBLIC_ENDPOINTS
public_endpoints = []
```

</details>

### Network Protocol Details

> The signer operates on port 4122 by default and supports both TCP and QUIC protocols for peer communication. The signer will attempt QUIC connections first for improved performance, automatically falling back to TCP if QUIC is unavailable or blocked on the network.

Reviewer: Maybe this could be together with the configuration for P2P?

## 3. Set up your blocklist client

> The blocklist client provides address screening services for the signer node. It interfaces with external API services to perform risk analysis on Bitcoin addresses. Default implementation uses Chainalysis, but supports custom implementations.

Reviewer: We'll want signers to use Chainalsys _sanctioned_ addresses API (https://www.chainalysis.com/free-cryptocurrency-sanctions-screening-tools/#:~:text=Cryptocurrency%20sanctions%20screening%20API,is%20on%20a%20sanctions%20list.) not the risk check.

On the linked page they can also request an API key.

Reference configuration:

<details>

<summary>blocklist-client-config.toml example</summary>

```toml
# !! ==============================================================================
# !! Blocklist Client Configuration
# !! ==============================================================================

[server]
# Server configurations.

# The host the server will run on.
host = "127.0.0.1"

# The port the server will run on.
port = 3032

[risk_analysis]
# Risk analysis configurations.

# The URL of the API you're planning to use to assess confirming or denying a
# bitcoin address. Note that the default implmentation of the blocklist client
# assumes the use of Chainalysis, but any method can be used as long as the API
# calls within the blocklist client are changed to match the new API.
api_url = "https://api.chainalysis.com"

# The API key for the API you're planning to use to assess confirming or denying.
api_key = "your-api-key"
```

</details>

> ## 4. Set up your container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Set up your containers
```

> Specific instructions for running your Docker container will be added shortly, but this is an example of what the Docker compose file will look like, so you can begin to understand what you'll be running as a signer.
> 
> Remember, this is not production-ready yet and is only for demonstration purposes at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we crystalize the Docker configuration, the following section displays an example of what the Docker compose file will look like, so that Signers can peek at how the system will look like.

Remember, this is not production-ready yet and is only for demonstration purposes at the moment.
```

<details>

<summary>docker-compose.yml example</summary>

```yml
# DISCLAIMER! READ!
# This file is an example of how it will look in production but there may be changes
# to this once production docker images are created and uploaded to dockerhub. This file is
# not meant to be used as is, but a docker compose like this one be created to be used later,

> # and this documentation will be updated to reflect those changes.

Reviewer: What do we expect will change?

Reviewer 2: I don't **expect** anything to change, but until we have the testnet working I think having a file that doesn't have this disclaimer at the top is a decent risk - say someone copies it before we have the network up and there are changes.
